README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76f26cdc-b9b3-481c-b39d-8e03bfd1ba95" alt="ClipShield Banner" width="100"/>
</p>

# 🛡️ ClipShield — Prevent Address Poisoning Scams in Crypto



**ClipShield** is a lightweight, offline tool that protects crypto users from **address poisoning attacks** — a growing scam tactic where attackers trick users into pasting fake wallet addresses that look nearly identical to legitimate ones. ClipShield monitors your clipboard in real-time and alerts you when a suspicious or lookalike address is detected, giving you an extra layer of safety for every transaction.

> 🔒 **Your clipboard is sacred. ClipShield keeps it clean.**

---

## 🚀 Features

- **🧠 Address Similarity Detection**  
  Detects lookalike wallet addresses that resemble your saved trusted addresses — in real-time.

- **⚙️ Completely Offline & Private**  
  ClipShield works 100% locally on your machine. No internet connection is required. No clipboard data is ever logged, transmitted, or stored.

- **🧾 Trusted Address Book**  
  Add, label, and manage wallet addresses you trust (like your own or exchange wallets) for accurate detection.

- **🔁 Pause & Resume Monitoring**  
  Gives you full control to toggle monitoring on or off when needed.

- **🔗 Multi-Chain Support**  
  Detects scam attempts across Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin (BTC), and Binance Smart Chain (BSC). More chains coming soon.

---

## 📦 Download & Installation

👉 **[Download the latest release](https://github.com/Greyshaws/ClipShield/releases/latest)** from GitHub.

### ✅ Currently supported:
- Windows

> ⚠️ **Note:** macOS support is coming in future versions. Stay tuned!

---

## 🧑‍💻 How It Works

1. **Install ClipShield** on your desktop.
2. **Set your trusted addresses** in the app (e.g., your wallet or exchange addresses).
3. **ClipShield monitors your clipboard** in real-time and compares copied addresses.
4. If a suspicious address is detected, **you get an instant alert** before it's too late.

---

## 📚 Use Cases

- Preventing **copy-paste address scams**
- Protecting against **transaction errors**
- Real-time warning system for **visual address impersonation attacks**

---

## 🧠 What is Address Poisoning?

Address poisoning is a subtle but highly effective scam where attackers send transactions from a wallet address to poison a victim's transaction history. This wallet address closely mimics the pattern of a legitimate address. Victims often copy this lookalike from previous transactions, unknowingly sending funds to the wrong wallet.

🔗 Learn more about address poisoning [here](https://medium.com/@gracious09/address-poisoning-in-defi-a-case-study-of-the-florence-finance-exploit-87c7047a8806)

---

## 🙋 FAQs

### Does ClipShield need internet to work?
**No.** ClipShield is 100% offline, making it private and secure.

### Does it modify my clipboard?
**Absolutely not.** ClipShield is strictly read-only and does not alter clipboard content.

### Is it open source?
The code will be open-sourced soon for transparency and community contribution.

---

## ❤️ Contributing

Want to help improve ClipShield or suggest a feature? Contributions are welcome!

1. Fork the repo
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/something`)
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Open a pull request

---

## 👩🏽‍💻 About the Creator

Hi 🙋🏽‍♀️. I'm [Gracious](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gracious-igwe-105a63b8/), a blockchain security analyst passionate about protecting users in the web3 space. ClipShield is built with love ❤️ (and frustration over address poisoning scams 😤).


---

## 🛠 License

MIT License — Free to use, contribute, and improve.

Commit message:

Added demo video and icon credit, and made some changes to the content

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76f26cdc-b9b3-481c-b39d-8e03bfd1ba95" alt="ClipShield Banner" width="100"/>
</p>

# 🛡️ ClipShield — Prevent Address Poisoning Scams in Crypto

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/414357bb-eb83-4fbb-8b33-e66539d5f4ac" alt="ClipShield Demo" />
</p>

**ClipShield** is a lightweight, offline tool that protects crypto users from **address poisoning attacks** — a growing scam tactic where attackers trick users into copying fake wallet addresses that look nearly identical to legitimate ones. ClipShield monitors your clipboard in real-time and alerts you when you copy an address that is similar to an address you have copied previously, giving you an extra layer of safety for every transaction.

---

## 🚀 Features

- **🧠 Address Similarity Detection**  
  Using an address similarity scoring mechanism, the app alerts you when it detects deceptive visual patterns between addresses you have copied.

- **⚙️ Completely Offline & Private**  
  ClipShield works 100% locally on your machine. No internet connection is required. No clipboard data is ever logged, transmitted, or stored.

- **🧾 Trusted Address Book**  
  Add, label, and manage wallet addresses you trust (like your own or exchange wallets) for accurate detection.

- **🔁 Pause & Resume Monitoring**  
  Gives you full control to toggle monitoring on or off when needed.

- **🔗 Multi-Chain Support**  
  Detects scam attempts across Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin (BTC), and Binance Smart Chain (BSC). More chains coming soon.

---

## 📦 Download & Installation

👉 **[Download the latest release](https://github.com/Greyshaws/ClipShield/releases/latest)** from GitHub.

### ✅ Currently supported:
- Windows

> ⚠️ **Note:** macOS support is coming in future versions. Stay tuned!

---

## 🧑‍💻 How It Works

1. **Install ClipShield** on your desktop.
2. **Set your trusted addresses** in the app (e.g., your wallet or exchange addresses).
3. **ClipShield monitors your clipboard** in real-time and compares copied addresses.
4. If a suspicious address is detected, **you get an instant alert** before it's too late.

---

## 📚 Use Cases

- Preventing **copy-paste address scams**
- Protecting against **transaction errors**
- Real-time warning system for **visual address impersonation attacks**

---

## 🧠 What is Address Poisoning?

Address poisoning is a subtle but highly effective scam where attackers send transactions from a wallet address to poison a victim's transaction history. This wallet address closely mimics the pattern of a legitimate address. Victims often copy this lookalike from previous transactions, unknowingly sending funds to the wrong wallet.

🔗 Learn more about address poisoning [here](https://medium.com/@gracious09/address-poisoning-in-defi-a-case-study-of-the-florence-finance-exploit-87c7047a8806)

---

## 🙋 FAQs

### Does ClipShield need internet to work?
**No.** ClipShield is 100% offline, making it private and secure.

### Does it modify my clipboard?
**Absolutely not.** ClipShield is strictly read-only and does not alter clipboard content.

### Is it open source?
The code will be open-sourced soon for transparency and community contribution.

---

## ❤️ Contributing

Want to help improve ClipShield or suggest a feature? Contributions are welcome!

1. Fork the repo
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/something`)
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Open a pull request

---

## 👩🏽‍💻 About the Creator

Hi 🙋🏽‍♀️. I'm [Gracious](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gracious-igwe-105a63b8/), a blockchain security analyst passionate about protecting users in the web3 space. ClipShield is built with love ❤️ (and frustration over address poisoning scams 😤).


---

## 🛠 License

MIT License — Free to use, contribute, and improve.

---

## 📎 Assets & Attribution

- 🛡️ **Defence icon** used in this project is created by [iconmas - Flaticon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/defence)
